libcxx/docs/DesignDocs/ThreadingSupportAPI.rst, before:

=====================
Threading Support API
=====================

.. contents::
   :local:

Overview
========

Libc++ supports using multiple different threading models and configurations
to implement the threading parts of libc++, including ``<thread>`` and ``<mutex>``.
These different models provide entirely different interfaces from each
other. To address this libc++ wraps the underlying threading API in a new and
consistent API, which it uses internally to implement threading primitives.

The ``<__threading_support>`` header is where libc++ defines its internal
threading interface. It contains forward declarations of the internal threading
interface as well as definitions for the interface.

External Threading API and the ``<__external_threading>`` header
================================================================

In order to support vendors with custom threading API's libc++ allows the
entire internal threading interface to be provided by an external,
vendor provided, header.

When ``_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_EXTERNAL`` is defined the ``<__threading_support>``
header simply forwards to the ``<__external_threading>`` header (which must exist).
It is expected that the ``<__external_threading>`` header provide the exact
interface normally provided by ``<__threading_support>``.

External Threading Library
==========================

libc++ can be compiled with its internal threading API delegating to an external
library. Such a configuration is useful for library vendors who wish to
distribute a thread-agnostic libc++ library, where the users of the library are
expected to provide the implementation of the libc++ internal threading API.

On a production setting, this would be achieved through a custom
``<__external_threading>`` header, which declares the libc++ internal threading
API but leaves out the implementation.

Threading Configuration Macros
==============================

**_LIBCPP_HAS_NO_THREADS**
  This macro is defined when libc++ is built without threading support. It
  should not be manually defined by the user.

**_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_EXTERNAL**
  This macro is defined when libc++ should use the ``<__external_threading>``
  header to provide the internal threading API. This macro overrides
  ``_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_PTHREAD``.

**_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_PTHREAD**
  This macro is defined when libc++ should use POSIX threads to implement the
  internal threading API.

**_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_WIN32**
  This macro is defined when libc++ should use Win32 threads to implement the
  internal threading API.

Commit message:

[libc++] Split the monolithic __threading_support header (#79654)
The <__threading_support> header is a huge beast and it's really
difficult to navigate. I find myself struggling to find what I want
every time I have to open it, and I've been considering splitting it up
for years for that reason.

This patch aims not to contain any functional change. The various
implementations of the threading base are simply moved to separate
headers and then the individual headers are simplified in mechanical
ways. For example, we used to have redundant declarations of all the
functions at the top of `__threading_support`, and those are removed
since they are not needed anymore. The various #ifdefs are also
simplified and removed when they become unnecessary.

Finally, this patch adds documentation for the API we expect from any
threading implementation.

libcxx/docs/DesignDocs/ThreadingSupportAPI.rst, after:

=====================
Threading Support API
=====================

.. contents::
   :local:

Overview
========

Libc++ supports using multiple different threading models and configurations
to implement the threading parts of libc++, including ``<thread>`` and ``<mutex>``.
These different models provide entirely different interfaces from each
other. To address this libc++ wraps the underlying threading API in a new and
consistent API, which it uses internally to implement threading primitives.

The ``<__thread/support.h>`` header is where libc++ defines its internal
threading interface. It documents the functions and declarations required
to fullfil the internal threading interface.

External Threading API and the ``<__external_threading>`` header
================================================================

In order to support vendors with custom threading API's libc++ allows the
entire internal threading interface to be provided by an external,
vendor provided, header.

When ``_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_EXTERNAL`` is defined the ``<__thread/support.h>``
header simply forwards to the ``<__external_threading>`` header (which must exist).
It is expected that the ``<__external_threading>`` header provide the exact
interface normally provided by ``<__thread/support.h>``.

External Threading Library
==========================

libc++ can be compiled with its internal threading API delegating to an external
library. Such a configuration is useful for library vendors who wish to
distribute a thread-agnostic libc++ library, where the users of the library are
expected to provide the implementation of the libc++ internal threading API.

On a production setting, this would be achieved through a custom
``<__external_threading>`` header, which declares the libc++ internal threading
API but leaves out the implementation.

Threading Configuration Macros
==============================

**_LIBCPP_HAS_NO_THREADS**
  This macro is defined when libc++ is built without threading support. It
  should not be manually defined by the user.

**_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_EXTERNAL**
  This macro is defined when libc++ should use the ``<__external_threading>``
  header to provide the internal threading API. This macro overrides
  ``_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_PTHREAD``.

**_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_PTHREAD**
  This macro is defined when libc++ should use POSIX threads to implement the
  internal threading API.

**_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_C11**
  This macro is defined when libc++ should use C11 threads to implement the
  internal threading API.

**_LIBCPP_HAS_THREAD_API_WIN32**
  This macro is defined when libc++ should use Win32 threads to implement the
  internal threading API.
